We extend a warm welcome to all of you to the December 2019 edition of J.W. Broadcasting.
The Watchtower Bible School of Gilead began on February 1, 1943.
Since then, thousands of students have benefited from the school's in-depth course of Bible study.
After months of intense study, graduation day is a highlight for the class.
In this month's program, you'll enjoy part one of the graduation of the 147th class of Gilead.
Pay close attention to these encouraging scriptural talks delivered to the graduates on Saturday, September 14, 2019.
Well, this is a very happy day for those who are very soon to graduate from this 147th class of Gilead.
I wanted to begin by asking them a question, and that is, how far will you go?
When people ask that question, how far will you go?
Normally, in connection with secular education, the meaning of the question is,
are you going to get your bachelor's degree, are you going to go for your master's,
are you going to go for a PhD and get your doctorate?
And so, in that sense, often going far in secular education is solely a means of self-fulfillment
and not necessarily to help others.
Some study what's called pure science.
Just to advance mankind's understanding of science, but with no practical benefit.
Some study dead languages. Some study bacteria or insects, which is wonderful if you like insects.
It may increase knowledge, but it doesn't necessarily help anyone.
Well, divine education is so different.
You see, it motivates us to ask the question, how far can I go not to further myself,
but to help others?
Now, Jehovah God and Christ Jesus really set the example for us here.
Would you join me? Let's read together Psalm 113.
And let's look at here at verse 6, speaking of our wonderful God, Jehovah.
It says, he stoops down to look on heaven and earth.
Well, now, how high do you imagine Jehovah to be?
Well, no matter how high you imagine it, you know, it's still higher.
Jehovah is so high as the Almighty God.
But what does it say here in verse 6? He stoops down.
Well, just think. You might think of an illustration of a man who is perhaps very, very tall,
and he's talking to a very, very small child. What does he do?
Oftentimes, he might crouch down, get down on one knee, and get right down on to the level of the child to speak to him.
And as a result, how does the little child feel?
Well, not so afraid, not so intimidated by that large man.
The child becomes calm. Well, think about Jehovah.
How far has Jehovah gone to stoop down so that we feel loved, so that we feel valued, so that we feel appreciated?
What a beautiful example, Jehovah sets, in going far to make us feel so comfortable with him.
Now, what about our Lord Jesus? Well, think how far he went to help each one of us.
Just look at the scripture here in Philippians 2.
Philippians 2 says that Jesus, of course, came from heaven, didn't he? Can you imagine how far that is?
It says in verse 5, keep this mental attitude in you that was also in Christ Jesus,
who although he was existing in God's form, gave no consideration to a seizure,
namely that he should be equal to God, no, but he emptied himself, and what did he do?
He took a slave's form, and he became human.
Well, that was pretty far to go.
And while you and I think the earth is pretty amazing and pretty wonderful, have you ever seen heaven?
And that's where Jesus left willingly to come down to be among us, to serve us.
And then in the end, how far did he go? Well, what does verse 8 say?
More than that, when he came as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient to what?
To the point of death. Yes, death on a torture stake.
Jesus was willing to go very, very far to help people.
Well, now you have all come to Gilead. Why did you come to Gilead? What was the purpose of it?
You see, was it to increase your Bible knowledge?
Was it to give you some grand knowledge of Bible history or to give you some comprehensive knowledge of biblical Greek or Hebrew?
No. The purpose of your coming to Gilead was to help you so that you could strengthen and stabilize the field and branch territory.
That's the purpose of Gilead. But now, what is the field and the branch territory? What is that?
It's people. It's people that need to be loved. It's people that need to be organized.
People that need to be trained and helped. And at Gilead, you have learned what Colossians chapter 4 and verse 11 says to be a source of great comfort.
Or, as the footnote says, to be a strengthening aid to other people.
Well, now the question is, that sits before you now is, how far will you go?
How far will you go to be fathers and mothers, to be brothers and sisters to all of these ones?
There has never been such a great need for this type of help.
We have known the world more of our brothers facing persecution than we have ever seen.
And we expect that that is going to increase.
In some lands, we have lawlessness on a level previously unheard of, where kidnapping and rampant violence occurs on a daily basis.
And many of our brothers are facing anxieties and pressures that they have never ever had to experience before.
They need your help. They need to be strengthened and comforted by you.
Well, sometimes you're going to feel overwhelmed. Sometimes you're going to wonder, what should I do? And you won't know exactly what to do.
Sometimes, even your best efforts, working very, very hard, won't work out the way that you want them to.
But remember that the brothers and sisters that you're working with, the people that you're trying to help, are wonderful people.
And they will work with you, and they will support you.
But most of all, are wonderful and amazing God. Jehovah will be there to support you.
Here's an experience that I just heard that really brought this to my mind and strengthened it.
It comes from Abaco in the Bahamas.
Now, you remember just about a week ago, we had this terrible Hurricane Dorian that struck this part of the world.
The Disaster Relief Committee in the Bahamas was working very hard to evacuate our brothers from Abaco Island to NASA.
Now, they had an airplane, worked very hard to have an airplane ready to go in the evening.
And although almost all communication had been cut off with Abaco Island, they sent a message on all possible channels for the brothers in Abaco to make their way to the air strip.
Now, as they were loading the plane with all the necessary materials, they were told that the government would not grant permission for the plane to land that day.
Now, the brothers tried everything. They persisted, but the government authorities would not budge. Can you imagine how they felt?
But an hour or so later, much to their surprise, they heard reports that 14 brothers and sisters from Abaco would be landing soon in NASA.
And they wondered, how could this be possible?
Well, they made preparations immediately at the NASA assembly hall and 14 exhausted hungry brothers and sisters arrived who had just been evacuated.
There was a congregation meeting just ending at the assembly hall. The brothers all went out greeting them, singing our new song, unfailing love.
Can you imagine what the scene must have been there at NASA?
But of course, a question was, how could this have happened? Well, the brothers explained, we heard the message to go to the air strip so we made our journey there.
A plane arrived, and we thought it was the brothers.
But it was a company who had a plane circling the island. When they saw a group of people at the air strip, they landed and evacuated us.
Everyone was in tears. 14 of the brothers got the message. They followed the direction. They assembled to be rescued.
And the disaster relief committee said, Jehovah made sure that his people were evacuated to safety. Isn't that wonderful?
So, even when you're best, doesn't seem to be good enough. Jehovah will make up for it. Do your best, and Jehovah will do the rest.
If you have love for God, and you have love for your brothers in your heart, how far will you go? You will go very, very far.
Well, we're looking forward now to our first talk from a member of the governing body, our dear brother Samuel Heard.
And he is going to give us a very fine warning. His talk is entitled, Be careful. Knowledge puffs up.
I'm looking at you. I'm looking at you too. But you have something that I can't see. It's in your head and in your heart.
It's knowledge. You've been cramming now for five months, stuffing things into that brain, and allowing it through meditation to trickle down into your heart.
So you may feel that you have enough. I can't get any more into the brain, but we know better.
There's still room for you to put a little more knowledge into the brain, and you're going to do that.
But you may feel right now that you are ready to explode. Don't you do it? But here's something to think about. Knowledge puffs up, but love builds up.
Now, that's a scripture found in 1 Corinthians chapter 8 and verse 1. Now, it doesn't have to be this way, especially with divine knowledge.
The knowledge that you receive from Jehovah, it's not designed to puff you up and to make you feel better than your neighbors, your brothers and your sisters, who may not have the amount of knowledge and education that you have and what you have just now received.
No, that's not the purpose of the knowledge that you have acquired here in the Gilead school, but there is something we have to think about.
What is that? Well, let's open our Bibles. Let's open our Bibles to 2 Peter, and let's take a look at what is stated here in 2 Peter, the first chapter, verses 5 and 6.
He says, for this very reason, put forth all earnest effort to supply to your faith virtue, to your virtue knowledge, to your knowledge self-control, to your self-control endurance, to your endurance godly devotion.
You see what you must apply to your knowledge self-control. We can't allow our mouths to just run wild with the information that we've received just spreading it everywhere.
It doesn't matter to whom it may receive it, but you have to control how much knowledge you permit to flow out of your mouth at a given time. Self-control is needed.
That means we should not boast over our accomplishments. All glory must go to Jehovah God and not to ourselves.
It's easy for others to feel that we are putting them down a little bit because of the vast knowledge that we have.
So we had to be careful and controlled and not boast. It reminded me of a story of Fable I heard years ago about a little flea by the name of Herman.
Herman and Flea got on the back of a giant elephant, and he rode on that elephant across her rickety bridge, and the bridge just shook as if it was going to explode and fall apart.
But they made it to the other side. And when they made it to the other side, and the flea left the elephant and found his friends, he bragged about what he was able to do along with the elephant in making that bridge shake as they crossed it.
Now how much do you feel that that flea contributed to the shaking of that bridge? Now what we're going to do though, we're going to leave the Fable and we're going to go to the Bible.
Let's go to the Bible and we're going to trade that flea in for a grasshopper. Now here it is.
Isaiah, chapter 40, verse 22. Take a look at it. There is one who dwells above the circle of the earth, and its inhabitants are like grasshoppers.
He is stretching out the heavens like a fine gauze, and he spreads them out like a tent to dwell in.
Now what we can do, we can apply this to ourselves. Now of course in the scripture contact, Joho was really not talking about his people as grasshoppers, but people with worldly knowledge that they've acquired.
They are like grasshoppers as far as Jehovah is concerned. You see the whole context of what he's talking about, but we're going to apply it to ourselves because we're so small in the eyes of Jehovah that we can be just like a grasshopper on the back of a giant elephant.
And our accomplishments that we make are not of our own abilities, but it's because of the help that we have coming from heaven, Jehovah.
And we find that the Apostle Paul said a fine example and not being a braggar.
What did he have? Well he had so much knowledge. In fact, when known as the man Saul of Tarsus, he was highly educated and was a Pharisee, and that was viewed as an impeccable Jewish pedigree, that's this man had.
But when he wrote letters, he didn't glorify himself. For instance, take a look at 1 Corinthians chapter 2, and read along with me verses 1 through 5, and you'll find that he did not allow knowledge to puff him up.
This is outreach. So when I came to you, brothers, I did not come with a Stravagan speech or wisdom declaring the sacred secret of God to you.
For I decided not to know anything among you except Jesus Christ and him executed on the state. And I came to you in weakness and in fear and with much trembling and my speech and what I preached were not with persuasive words of wisdom, but with a demonstration of spirit and power.
So that your faith might be not in men's wisdom, but in God's power. There's an example.
Let's try our best to follow that example and not be like men and women of the world who attend these great universities and they come out and they're able to get doctors degrees in science or this or that.
And they kind of show all that off, but we're not like that. But we could be if we're not careful. Now the Bible shows what worldly wisdom can accomplish and what it cannot accomplish.
For instance, in Ecclesiastes chapter 1, verses 16 to 18, the account starts off this way it says, then I said in my heart, look, I have acquired great wisdom more than anyone who was before me in Jerusalem and my heart gained a great deal of wisdom and knowledge.
It goes on, I applied my heart to knowing wisdom and to knowing madness and knowing folly. And this too is a chasing after the wind for an abundance of wisdom brings an abundance of frustration so that whoever increases knowledge increases pain.
Now if you got a little whiff of that, know it all, then blow it away. Move away from it. You don't want to think that way.
Let's never try to be a know it all. Jesus doesn't know everything that he has been learning from Jehovah for eons of time. Now how long is an eon?
An eon is a really, really super long, impossible to a major length of time. That's an eon. Only Jehovah knows everything.
Keep that in mind. There is nothing beyond his understanding. How do we know that? Well, the Bible tells us that same chapter where he mentions the Grasshopper, Isaiah chapter 40, but this time 13 and 14,
says, who has taken the measurements of the spirit of Jehovah and who can instruct him as an advisor with whom did he consult to gain understanding or who teaches him in the path of justice or teaches him knowledge or shows him the way of true understanding?
Think about it. We can know what we need to know at the time we need to know it. Now that's a mouthful. Or should we say a headful? Yes, all of you graduates of Gilead School, please share with others what you've learned here at Gilead School.
Don't walk away from this top thinking you should keep your mouths closed. We're not saying that, but control what you say and when you say it and to whom you tell it to.
So we know that you've learned so much at this school, but share it discreetly. Keep in mind these words of King Solomon. He says there is an appointed time for everything, a time to be silent and a time to speak.
Don't point to yourself. Point heavenward. Always glorify Jehovah. Point to Jehovah. Now, government and body members, all of us, we have to be very careful ourselves because we get credit for things that we are not responsible for.
Brothers, account my hug you. Oh, thank you, brothers, you government body members. You're really well. Now, we know we didn't do anything.
You could have done what we did if you'd been in our seat. It's Jehovah spirit that causes these things to happen. Now it's true we're tools that he uses, but he's the one.
Now, we're not saying that you can't say thank you, brother, for what you're doing the work that you do. No, we're not saying that. It's just be careful that you're not glorify men, but glorify God.
The governing body gets credit that we don't deserve. It belongs to Jehovah and Jesus and we haven't been able to close the mouths of over 8 million bleeding sheep, but we will keep trying.
So in conclusion, be like the grasshopper that wrote on the back of the elephant, stay close to Jehovah and enjoy the ride, but always give him their credit for your accomplishment.
Oh, we thank you so much brotherhood for that excellent warning for us. Of course, the one day I mentioned insects in my introduction, brotherhood uses insects in his talk. I guess we do need to know about insects.
Well, now we're looking forward to hearing from a helper to the service committee of the governing body, brother Christopher Maver, and brother Maver is going to speak to us on the topic, count your days.
Isn't it true? We often count our days when we anticipate an exciting event and no doubt you, Gillia's students, you were counting your days in anticipation of this day, and if you were, you know that today is the 138th day of your Gillia's school experience.
But after today, will you continue to count your days? Should you? To answer that question, please open your Bibles to the 90th song and it's a prayer that Moses said to Jehovah and notice what Moses asked him in verse 12.
Teach us how to count our days so that we may acquire a heart of wisdom.
So the answer to this question is yes, we should continue to count our days, but what does that mean? Count your days and why will we need God's help to do it?
The answer is this, because we are dedicated servants of Jehovah God. Each and every day we need to make sure that we are using it in his service to bring him glory.
Now, we're imperfect. This is not always easy to do. In fact, if we look at verse 10 of the 90th song, we notice that Moses said that our days are few and they are filled with a lot of difficulties.
So we need God's help to fulfill our dedication. Yes, we need to count our days and Jehovah promises that he will be there to help us.
Notice this promise in Isaiah chapter 30.
In verse 21, Jehovah says, and your own ears will hear a word behind you saying, this is the way. Walk in it.
In case you should go to the right or in case you should go to the left. So the reality is we need Jehovah to help us to live a dedicated life to him.
Thankfully, we don't need to figure it out on our own. He's there to guide and direct us. But did you know what he expects of us?
Looking back at that scripture, he says, when he tells you something, walk in it. That's an emphatic statement, isn't it?
It doesn't leave any doubt. We need to do it. Make it happen in our life. We cannot be passive about our dedication.
As Christians, we leave a very busy life. We have various events to go to. And especially if you're in full-time service, well, you are given an assignment and oftentimes, that assignment is spelled out for you.
Even the schedule in which to accomplish that work is set for us. We don't really think too much about it.
Now, if we're not careful, we could just carry it along with the flow of time, the flow of the work, and not remember why we are doing it and who we are doing it for.
In fact, we could become like this fine young brother on a raft. He is enjoying himself. He's going with the flow of the time. But is he really mindful of where he is going and why?
He's sitting down. He's looking all around. The or is not in a hand. He's not actively steering his life. He's passive.
Now, being passive in our dedication to Jehovah is a very dangerous situation because as Ecclesiastes 9-11 tells us, time and unexpected events overtake us.
Now, this fine brother is about to get a rude awakening. An unexpected rock has popped up.
A sudden storm of difficulties has overtaken him because he was passive. He was caught off guard. He lost his balance. Now he's suffering spiritual shipwreck.
He did not count his days. He forgot to listen to Jehovah God to pay attention to his dedication in his life. He wasn't listening.
Jesus emphasized that it's so important for us not to be passive about our dedication to God.
Luke 1324, Jesus made it clear that we were to exert ourselves vigorously, not just at a work assignment, but in our life as a Christian.
Be personally involved in what we are doing in our Christian dedication. The Apostle Paul also gave good counsel to the young man Timothy that we benefit from today.
First Timothy 47, you'll recall that Paul says, train yourself with godly devotion as your aim.
Now, when we're training ourselves, that means we're not finished yet. We're still in the competition. We're still in training.
Godly devotion must be something that we personally take for ourselves and work at it. It just doesn't happen on its own.
But thankfully, Jehovah helps us. He's given us his word, the Bible. He's given us his organization which helps us apply Bible principles in our life and gives us warnings on the things to look out for.
It's up to us to do it. It's as if Jehovah gives us the ore and he says, now pick it up and use it in your stream of time.
And when we do, then we're like this young brother now. He's taken a firm hold on the ore. He's using it even during peaceful times in his life, making sure that his life is continuing on in a faithful Christian course.
Then when he encounters temptations or trials, well, he's got his oren his hand.
Jehovah is there to help him, to guide and direct him, to navigate through the difficult times.
It takes effort. It can be distressing. But, Jehovah has given us the means to navigate through these difficult times to continue on pursuing our dedicated Christian life.
Jesus said the perfect example in this. Every day, Jesus relied heavily on Jehovah's direction. He did not take it for granted.
But, Jesus knew, when he was sent to the earth, he had an assignment. He was on a very strict time budget. It was humanly impossible really for a man, even a perfect man, to accomplish what Jesus did.
He relied on Jehovah. He did not take a casual viewpoint of it. But every day, he looked at Jehovah to help him to apply the principles of that he learned through his word.
The direction that he received from Jehovah God and going through this difficult assignment. And Jesus knew, at the end of the day, after the things he preached and the things he did, he knew that that was a miracle.
He said so, John 1410. He says, the father who remains in union with me is doing his works. He knew, Jehovah was backing him up. But, Jesus worked with Jehovah. He didn't take a casual view of it.
Now, we can have the same kind of confidence in Jehovah. He is there for us, even when we are encountering something that we feel is humanly impossible.
We have a good example of that. There is a couple who graduated in the 24th class of Gilead.
The names are Malcolm and Grace Allen. Now, their life story is in the October 15th, 2013 Watchtower, and it's really worthwhile reading.
But we will find that in their early life, they both pioneered. They got married. They pioneered together. They were in the circuit work for a number of years. They were invited to Gilead and after Gilead, they were assigned to Brooklyn Bethel.
And their brother, Allen, served in some very responsible positions and his wife, a housekeeper. They loved their Bethel service.
But 25 years into their Bethel career, their course in life took a sudden change, a detour, unexpected.
Both sets of parents became very ill and needy. And it became apparent that they would have to relinquish their Bethel service and full time service in order to care for them.
Now, mind you, at this point in their life, they are both in their late 50s. They used their youth and service to God, so brother Allen did not have really a secular career or skill on which to go back to.
He needed to start in his late 50s to be the breadwinner of the family.
Sister Allen now needed to take care of both sets of parents. This was a sharp change in events for them.
But they held firm to their or that Jehovah God had given them. They learned to rely on Jehovah God to lean on him every inch of the way.
And they were successful. Brother Allen found a job as an insurance salesman which provided for the family.
And they kept going. Even though it was stressful times, they were successful. Now eventually, their parents died and they thought, well, maybe we can return to Bethel service.
But unfortunately, at this point in their life, their own health and age overtook them. And they only had to content themselves with being good local congregation publishers.
How did they view this? Was this a view of failure on their part? Did they think I failed or I'm bitter or because things happened?
Where brother Allen makes this very profound statement about life in Jehovah's service.
This is what he says. Life is unpredictable at times uncertain and even hard to deal with.
But Jehovah blesses those who lean on him, not on their own understanding. This is what my wife and I have experienced over our long and rewarding life.
They rejoiced in their life of a dedicated servant of God, taking advantage of every opportunity to express their dedication to him and pursuing and practicing godly devotion in their life.
And they saw Jehovah's hand in their life in truly miraculous ways. Now they will experience another miracle of God because both of them are now sleeping in the grave.
But we know that Jehovah has already calculated the days when he will resurrect Malcolm and Grace and bring them back to life so they can continue serving him in a dedicated way for an eternity of days to come.
This is certainly a good lesson for all of us to count our days, to be fully invested in our journey as a dedicated Christian to Jehovah.
Therefore, you Gilead students and really all of us, let us continue to lean on Jehovah and working vigorously at doing what Jehovah directs us to do during these difficult last days, living up to our dedication to God.
And doing so, we can be assured that we too will be blessed by Jehovah. He will give us an eternity of days to enjoy in his glorious new world soon to come.
Well, we thank you very much, Brother Maver, for that very good reminder.
Well, now we have the privilege to hear from one of our more recently appointed helpers to the governing body, Brother Leonard Myers, I help her to the writing committee. He is going to speak to us on the topic, you trusted in me.
You trusted in me. Now you may be saying, Brother Myers, I don't even know you. How can I trust in you?
And it's true that we need to have a relationship with an individual to truly trust him. But the me and our talk title isn't referring to any human, referring to our trustworthy God, Jehovah.
And that phrase you trusted in me was stated by Jehovah to the faithful man, Ebid Melek. Why could Jehovah tell him that? And how can his example help you students?
Well, turn with me, please to Jeremiah chapter 38. And as we review his example, look for ways that Ebid Melek trusted in Jehovah.
Now, as you know, Ebid Melek was an Ethiopian eunuch employed in the house of King Zedekaya, and he was a friend of the prophet Jeremiah.
At the time, Jerusalem was under siege by the Babylonians, and Jeremiah had repeatedly declared that the city was doomed.
He had encouraged the people to save themselves by surrendering. Now that enraged certain princes who were Zedekaya's advisors.
They were determined to defend the city at all costs, and Jeremiah was an obstacle to that defense.
Well, if you look in verse 4 of Jeremiah chapter 38, the princes went to Zedekaya and they accused Jeremiah of weakening the morale of the soldiers and all the people.
Weak King that he was, Zedekaya stated in verse 5, look, he is in your hands for the King cannot do anything to stop you.
Well, we know what that resulted in. Those princes had Jeremiah lowered into a myriad muddy system.
With the food supply being virtually exhausted in Jerusalem, there was no hope of Jeremiah receiving food from anyone.
His death was just a matter of time.
Well, in step, Ebed Melek, he heard what those princes had done and trusting in Jehovah.
He approached the King not privately, not secretly, but in public, at one of the city gates, and noticed what he stated in verse 9.
Oh, my Lord, the King, what these men have done to Jeremiah, the Prophet is evil.
They have thrown him into the sister, and he will die there because of the famine, for there is no bread left in the city.
And the result of his bold action and trust in Jehovah, the King stated in verse 10,
Take 30 men with you from here, and pull Jeremiah the Prophet up out of the sister before he dies.
Now, 30 men certainly would have served as a protection.
Yet, Ebed Melek may still have feared what those princes would do to him, but his concern was outweighed by his friendship and respect for Jehovah's Prophet and by his trust in Jehovah.
And as we know, verses 11 through 13 outline, his successful rescue mission.
But why could Ebed Melek be so courageous when he approached the King and rescued Jeremiah?
It was because he trusted in Jehovah.
And because of that trust, notice how Jehovah would reward him.
In chapter 39, we'll start reading in the B portion of verse 16.
Notice Jehovah's words through Jeremiah to Ebed Melek.
Here I am fulfilling my words on this city for calamity and not for good.
And in that day, you will see it happen.
But I will rescue you in that day declares Jehovah and you will not be handed over to the men you fear.
For I will surely provide you with escape and you will not fall by the sword.
You will have your life as a spoil because you trusted in me.
Ebed Melek didn't need to fear.
As he had viewed Jeremiah's life as precious,
so Jehovah viewed his life as precious and would preserve him alive.
All because, as verse 18 says, he trusted in Jehovah.
Now, whether he was deported to Babylon and died a natural death or was left back in the land of Judah,
the Bible doesn't say, but his life would be spared
and he could continue to worship the God in whom he trusted.
At this point, Ebed Melek vanishes from Bible history,
but not his name nor the example that he set for you and me to trust in Jehovah.
Now, this thought of trusting in Jehovah isn't new to you students.
Trusting in Jehovah got you to Gillian.
In your assignments at Bethel or the field, you proved your trust in God.
Trust helped you through your studies at Gillian.
Do you remember the times when you prayed for Jehovah's help with an assignment or a test
or as one recent graduate said,
when your brain was full and you needed a full week off to digest all the material?
Remember those times?
See, that took trust that Jehovah would help you.
And as you look to the future, trusting in Jehovah will help you to be successful in your assignments.
Notice these comments from graduates of the last class of Gillian.
One brother wrote,
we have placed our lives in Jehovah's hands.
We prayed to Jehovah with an intensity and trust that never existed before.
Another brother wrote,
at times I have felt like, what do we do?
That I'm reminded that we confidently leave the matter in Jehovah's hands
trusting that he will handle it or make clear to us the course to take.
And finally, another brother wrote,
at times we have felt quite overwhelmed with the new language, responsibilities, culture, and so forth.
However, our trust in Jehovah reminds us that this is his organization, his work, and they are his sheep.
If we do our part and work hard, there is no doubt he'll help us.
We never have to rely on ourselves.
Like Ebid Melek,
trusting in Jehovah will help you to be successful in your assignments.
Here are two ways that you can add to your trust.
Number one, trusting in Jehovah involves trusting in the power of Holy Spirit.
For example, trusting in that Spirit will help you to deal with your brothers and sisters.
Now, your assignments will involve close contact with them.
Will there be challenges at times? Very likely, we're all imperfect.
Trust that Holy Spirit can help you to cultivate the love, peace, patience,
mildness, and self-control that you'll need to deal with those situations.
Number two, trusting in Jehovah means trusting those whom he trusts.
Jehovah is a range for the faithful and the great slave to care for earthly kingdom interests.
Trust in the appointment of the slave.
Trust in Jehovah's arrangement, follow any direction that the slave provides.
Those are two ways that you can add to your trust in Jehovah.
We encourage you to trust in Jehovah especially when you face challenging situations.
During those times, remember scriptures such as these.
Proverbs chapter 3 verse 5.
Trust in Jehovah with all your heart and do not rely on your own understanding.
Psalm 56 verses 3 and 4.
When I am afraid, I put my trust in you, in God whose word I praise, in God, I put my trust.
And Isaiah chapter 26 verses 3 and 4.
You will safeguard those who fully lean on you.
You will give them continuous peace because it is in you that they trust.
Trust in Jehovah forever.
Scriptures like those can really help you during challenging times.
Trust got you here to Gilead.
Trust helped you through your studies.
And trust in Jehovah will help you in your assignments.
Like Ebid Melek, continue to trust in Jehovah.
You know, one day I hope to get to know all of you students.
Then we can truly say that we trust one another.
Until then, continue to trust in Jehovah so that he can say of you dear Gilead students.
You trusted in me.
Well, we thank you for that excellent advice, Brother Myers.
And now we're looking forward to hearing from one of the Gilead instructors.
And I'm sure all of the students are going to be interested to hear what he has to say.
Brother James Cawthon is going to speak to us on the subject, shaken, but not forsaken.
Congratulations.
Today, you become a graduate of the 147th class of Gilead.
It's a day to be celebrated.
It's a day to be enjoyed.
And you deserve it.
You were taught.
And even when you thought you had reached your limit.
You didn't give up.
You kept coming in.
You kept trusting in Jehovah.
As your instructors were very pleased to see your happy smiling faces.
And if we could, we'd wish that for you every day for the rest of your lives.
However, as much as we try, we can't control what happens to us in life.
Isn't that true?
A change comes for everyone.
Sooner or later, it's inevitable.
Some changes are small.
Other changes, however, can rock our world and leave us shaken to the core.
And when that happens, we may suddenly find that we're no longer the person we thought we were.
It can seem as if our very identity has been ripped away from us.
Consider Moses.
Moses grew up in one of the most luxurious places on earth at the time.
That is the Egyptian oil court.
Memories of the royal household resided in opulent mansions that were dotted along the Nile.
These homes were decorated in precious stones, incorporated pools and gardens,
a house to large staff that prepared lavish meals.
Moses likely had a knowledge and understanding of some of the most amazing structures the world has ever seen.
And why?
Likely, it's because he was schooled from a young age in subjects such as writing and math, science, architecture.
In addition, Moses may have witnessed Egypt's rise to become a mighty empire and a powerful military.
Moses enjoyed a privilege and extravagant upbringing.
And no doubt he became a man of confidence and influence.
Acts chapter 7 verse 22 says,
So Moses was instructed in all the wisdom of the Egyptians.
In fact, he was powerful in his words and deeds.
So when he killed an Egyptian on behalf of his fellow, he grew brother.
He saw himself as a deliverer.
He was confident, he was ready, but he was wrong.
We know what happened.
He fled to Midian, no longer the favorite prince, no longer in charge of anyone except some sheep.
The confidence he knew back in Egypt had been replaced with confusion, loss, and fear.
Moses must have been shaken.
So often, disappointments in life bring on feelings of sadness, self-doubt, worthlessness,
and that those things in effect strip us of our cherished identity.
And we're especially vulnerable if we define ourselves by our natural skills and qualities,
or by what others think of us, or even by our assignment or position.
In effect, when we do that, we're saying, I am what I do, or I am what others think of me.
These are deceptive filters that cause us to lose sight of who we really are.
And then, when change comes, we're shaken.
But are we forsaken?
Let's consider Moses again.
Moses was a chosen one, too.
Was Moses a chosen one to deliver the Hebrews?
Well, the answer is yes.
Was it Jehovah's time?
The answer is no.
And neither was he fully qualified for the appointment or the assignment.
You see, he needed divine training, and that was something that he could not get in Egypt.
It's true he had worldly education, he had confidence, he had poise.
But he needed the qualities of patience, maintenance, humility, and self-control to be developed to a greater degree.
Jehovah saw that, and he knew just how to accomplish it.
That would be the lowly occupation of a shepherd in Median.
Now, after 40 years, Moses seized the flaming thorn bush, and to his surprise and shock, Jehovah commissions him.
40 years later.
Now, think about how Moses must have felt at that moment.
The realization that he wasn't worthless, the Jehovah still valued him.
His daily pain of heart over the suffering of his fellow Hebrews was now being replaced with a keen anticipation for what Jehovah was going to do and no doubt in a marvelous way.
So you see, Moses was never really forsaken by God.
No rather, Jehovah had been with him every step of the way, those 40 years.
He was molding him, preparing him for an incredible future assignment that he could never have possibly imagined.
Jehovah will do the same for you.
You see, he takes a long range view.
He sees your potential.
He knows how to accomplish it.
Remember that Jehovah will do it at the right time, and at his time, and that his view must be our view.
So when a change comes, whatever it may be, it's just the scene.
It's not the entire movie.
It's a chapter.
It's not the book.
You may not know what's coming next, but don't worry.
Jehovah does.
Decades later, after leading Jehovah's people out of Egypt and navigating through the wilderness, it was now time for Joshua to step up.
At Deuteronomy 31 verse 8, Moses said to Joshua, Jehovah will neither desert you nor abandon you.
Those must have been very encouraging words.
You see, Moses never forgot the lesson he learned all those years ago.
He had been shaken, yes, but he was not forsaken.
And perhaps that was his motivation for writing another passage in the Bible.
So if you remember this, anyone dwelling in the secret place of the Most High will lodge under the shadow of the Almighty.
I will say to Jehovah, you are my refuge and my stronghold, my God in whom I trust.
Sounds familiar?
Psalm 91.
Moses had become absolutely convinced that Jehovah was always with him through the good times and through the hard times.
So like Moses, you'll experience joys, some disappointments, and sooner or later change.
Perhaps a change away from a cherished assignment.
It may feel devastating.
You can either roll with it or you can be rolled over by it.
How will you roll with it?
You can roll with it if you remember.
You are not your career.
You are not your assignment.
You are not your privilege.
You are, however, loved by God.
You have a spiritual heritage and you have a wonderful bright future.
And when you remember that, you can gracefully accept the changes that come.
And there's something else you can do.
You can use your experience to help others.
In fact, your willingness to help others even when you're shaken by a personal experience will reveal your loyalty and your maturity.
Do little things as if they were great things.
Small tasks reveal a big heart.
It's all part of our training now and for life in the new world.
And remember this too.
A change of circumstances is rarely as important as a change of attitude.
So it's not your position, but it will be your disposition that will
bring Jehovah's blessing.
So in conclusion, yes, change will come.
The world changes.
Circumstances change.
We change.
However, Jehovah does not change.
His Word does not change.
And his love for you will never change.
So while you may be shaken at times, rest assured you will never, ever be.
For shaken.
I don't know about you, but I mark down.
It's not your position.
It's your disposition.
I'll be using that one in the future.
Thank you very, very much for those excellent thoughts.
Well, now we have the privilege to hear from another of the Gilead instructors, Brother Mark Numer.
He's going to speak to us on the topic.
Remember the vision.
One of the rarest privileges a human has ever had.
Is to see a vision of Jehovah's throne.
And it's good for us now to look on with a man who had this privilege.
And how the vision changed his life.
What were the circumstances around this event?
And more importantly, for you, how does it affect you?
And what lessons do we want you to take to heart?
So please open your Bibles or listen closely to these words recorded at Isaiah chapter 6 and verse 1.
Isaiah 6, 1.
In the year that King Isaiah died, I saw Jehovah sitting on a lofty and elevated throne
with the skirts of his robe filled the temple.
The skirts of Jehovah's magnificent garments filling the temple.
This is what Isaiah saw.
What does it show?
It shows that Jehovah is figuratively present in the temple and he was keenly aware of everything
that was going on there, including what had happened with King Isaiah.
Now recall, Isaiah, not content with his role as King.
What did he do?
He forces way into the holy compartment of the temple.
Why?
To burn incense, like a priest.
And for that, he was struck with leprosy.
But it is of interest that Jehovah inspired Isaiah to write,
not in the year that Joseph, Isaiah's son, became king,
but rather in the year that King Isaiah died.
By directing Isaiah to pen those words in the year that Isaiah died,
it could be said that Jehovah was setting this stage for teaching Isaiah what qualities he loves
and what qualities he hates.
So you see, this vision is going to be life-changing for Isaiah
and we want it to be life-changing for you.
So what happens next?
Well, verse 2 shows that Jehovah reveals something perhaps no other human has seen in vision.
Serifs, Isaiah is the only Bible writer that mentions them.
Now, the privileges, these serifs enjoy their high rank
and serving close to the universal sovereign, move them to humbly cover their faces with their wings
and sing Jehovah's praises with such power that the temple foundation shakes.
What lesson in contrast could Jehovah have been impressing on Isaiah?
Well, consider this, Isaiah became king at only 16 years old
and showed tremendous potential at the outset.
When Isaiah became a prophet, he too was a young man, most likely in his 20s.
He was married to a supportive wife. She's called a prophetess.
So by showing Isaiah, the example of these humble serifs in the same year, Isaiah died.
It was as if Jehovah was saying, you know, Isaiah, you're a fine young man.
You have a bright future. You have a good wife.
But don't become presumptuous like Isaiah.
What a powerful contrast for Isaiah to meditate on.
No doubt this affected him deeply.
And this is your first lesson.
Like Isaiah, you have a bright future.
Don't miss the purpose of why you've been called to Gilead.
Your assignment is to honor Jehovah God.
You've been trained to support his organization.
We are investing in you for the future.
So remember the vision.
Imitate the serifs.
Cover your face.
And don't spoil your humility by drawing undue attention to yourself.
You see, even the most subtle boasting invites others to take a peek at you
and look in. Who are you?
What are you doing? No. That detracts from Jehovah's glory.
So when tempted to blow your own horn, remember the mighty song of the serifs.
Sing Jehovah's praises, not your own.
Any privilege you receive should make you more humble.
Like the serifs, not puff you up like Isaiah.
And by remaining humble, Jehovah can use you to a greater extent.
Why? Because he can trust you to give him the glory.
Serifs.
They don't aspire to be kings.
They don't aspire to be priests.
But they're content with their role as workers.
So be like the serifs by doing your part to advance pure worship.
What else could Isaiah learn from this song?
Well, chapter 6, verse 3b, it says,
The whole earth is filled with his glory.
Now that's an interesting statement.
Why may Jehovah have included those words as part of the vision?
Well, consider this.
Isaiah was faced with extreme apathy in his assignment.
The land of Judah was full of false worship, the rebellious,
and tribe kingdom of Samaria had rejected Jehovah to Isaiah.
It could have felt like no one is glorifying Jehovah.
Where's the glory for Jehovah?
If he focused on those trials, it could have been so easy for him to get discouraged to give up.
What's the use? Why should I put up with this?
No one is listening.
So what would help him not to give up?
He would need to go back to the vision.
And imagine a future time the whole earth being filled with Jehovah's glory.
With eyes of faith, Isaiah would focus on what Jehovah was yet to accomplish as part of his purpose.
Jehovah strengthened Isaiah with prophecies about the future when the whole earth would be filled with his glory.
Prophecies about the Messiah, the restoration of true worship.
Isaiah himself even witnessed the prophecy being fulfilled in his own lifetime,
the fall of the Ten Tribe, the kingdom to the Assyrians.
Then, more than 40 years later, after his hard work,
imagine he was honored to record one of the most spectacular demonstrations of God's executional power in all scripture,
the destruction of 185,000 soldiers in one night.
And outstanding reminder, Isaiah, my glory is filling indeed the whole earth.
He was as if Jehovah was saying, Isaiah, listen.
I know you see badness among people, but keep your focus.
Focus on the good things that I'm accomplishing right now and will accomplish in the future.
And this is lesson number two for you.
When you find yourself becoming consumed with trials,
the imperfections of others, maybe some of you work with two, three, four, five here and there.
Ooh, the frustrations of the work being passed over again for a privilege.
You start thinking, but what's the use of working hard?
Why am I trying so hard to apply the good training I've received at Gilead?
No one here cares.
Take a deep breath.
Back away.
Turn to the vision.
Shift the focus off yourself and on to the big picture.
Which is the whole earth being filled with Jehovah's glory.
Put your focus on the 8.5 million people earth wide that are glorifying Jehovah God
in His great spiritual temple.
Each one is playing a small but valuable role in accomplishing Jehovah's purpose.
If you do that, it will help you to cherish your place in God's global arrangement.
Next comes the invitation.
The invitation.
Here it comes.
And oh, that invitation in verse 8.
It is so real, so vivid to Isaiah.
He's moved to declare, here I am.
Here I am, send me.
No hesitation.
He didn't ask what he would gain.
He didn't ask what other assignments his contemporary prophets got.
What about that one?
What about this one?
What's Micah going to do?
We'll see in what I know.
He just said, here I am, send me.
Isn't that amazing?
And the fact is, he didn't know everything he was signing up for.
Those details would come later.
And they did.
About 17 years later.
Now Isaiah is told to take his small son, Sheer Jeship.
And go meet King Ahaz.
Wicked King Ahaz and offer him help.
I mean, can you imagine Isaiah?
What was he thinking?
Now, wait a minute.
Wait a minute Jehovah.
Ahaz murders his own children.
And now you want me to take my son along?
I said here, I am, send me, not us.
And what about his wife?
What about his wife?
Isaiah, you're not taking my little boy.
Sheer Jeship, get back here.
I mean, you don't know, but it just helped you to think about this.
So, both Isaiah and his wife would need to return to the vision
for reassurance that Jehovah's skirts.
His attention was indeed filling Judah.
He was aware of everything.
They would need to trust in Jehovah, follow his direction.
Isaiah and FX said, I'll go.
I'll go.
I'll be faithful even if the King is not.
Isaiah did not let the tests of others make him fail his.
Lesson number three.
Assignments to support the kingdom work are not always easy.
And your wives feel it too.
And when your husband receives an assignment, perhaps no one else wanted,
you play a crucial role.
How will you respond when he tells you of the assignment?
Why did they pick you?
Can't you tell them to find someone else?
You did it last time.
Or will you be proud of your husband?
Proud of him for being Isaiah-like, accepting the assignments faithfully,
even volunteering for them?
You wives.
Your support is priceless in God's eyes and can make all the difference.
How do you think Isaiah remembered the vision?
No doubt he recalled not only the images, but the sounds.
Oh, Jehovah's skirts stretching, filling the temple.
This serves powerful wings beating through the air.
The melodious words echoing in song.
They would no doubt be permanently etched in his mind.
We can only imagine that Isaiah and his wife replayed that vision over and over again in their minds.
And how it must have helped them to hold on to Jehovah.
Never let go for those 40 years, plus 40 years.
And the vision can do the same for you.
That's the point.
This inspired vision, this holy scripture, can help you to stick to Jehovah.
And never let go, especially when times are hard.
When you are struggling to keep a float spiritually, you have a challenge you have to overcome.
You might even feel at times like you're swimming in mud.
Don't give up.
Make the vision come alive in your mind.
See the images.
Hear the sounds.
Feel the odds Isaiah must have felt.
And then, and then apply the lessons in your life.
Apply these wonderful scriptural lessons in your life.
Immitate the serfs.
Cover your face.
Stay humble.
See God's glory feeling the whole earth.
Focus on the big picture.
Keep a blaze.
The here I am, send me.
Fire.
Yes.
Remember the vision.
And let it motivate you to keep your cherished place in God's great spiritual temple now.
And in Jehovah's heart for all eternity.
Well, we thank you so much, Brother Numer, for those excellent thoughts.
It truly was a spiritually enriching Gilead program.
And in the coming weeks, parts two and three of the graduation will be released on JW Broadcasting.
So keep on the lookout.
We'll conclude this month's program, traveling to the island of Reunion,
located in the Indian Ocean between Madagascar and Mauritius.
It's decorated with beautiful volcanic sand beaches, waterfalls, deep valleys, rugged peaks,
and one of the most active volcanoes on earth, Pitone de la Funez.
The first kingdom publisher arrived to Reunion in 1955.
Now, more than 3,000 of our brothers and sisters are serving there.
Over 400 of them are regular pioneers.
While French is the official language of the island, there are three congregations in Malagasy
and 13 in the common tongue of Creole of Reunion.
Because of the brother's evangelizing spirit, over 6,500 people on Reunion attended the memorial in 2018.
This is the Grombois congregation.
They have more than 130 publishers with 13 regular pioneers.
And as of May 2019, they were conducting 61 Bible studies.
And here is the Salicy Creole congregation with just 21 publishers.
But they conduct 13 Bible studies.
These warm and hospitable brothers and sisters in both Grombois and Salicy Creole
are working hard to proclaim the kingdom message.
We love our brothers in Reunion and send them our greetings.
And we love all of you, faithful ones who are viewing this program.
From the world headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses, this is J.W. Broadcasting.